Project: Data Warehouse
Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to.

System Architecture for AWS S3 to Redshift ETL
System Architecture for AWS S3 to Redshift ETL

Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

Helpful Hints
Many of the issues that you may have will come from security. You may not have the right keys, roles, region, etc. defined and as a result you will be denied access. If you are having troubles go back to the various lessons where you set up a Redshift cluster, or implemented a role, created a virtual network, etc. Make sure you can accomplish those tasks there, then they should be easy for you to recreate in this project. You are likely to have fewer issues with security if you implement the role creation, setup of the Redshift cluster, and destruction of it via Infrastructure As Code (IAC).
Udacity provides a temporary AWS account for you to build the necessary resources for this project. NB This will REPLACE your AWS credentials which are in your .aws folder. PLEASE make sure you copy those first since they will be overwritten. IF you are having difficulty completing the Project in 1 session (there is a time limit), you MAY find it more effective to use your own AWS account. This would avoid the need to validate your session each time you restart on the project. However, that would be your own funds. It is unlikely that would cost you more than a few dollars.
The starter code that we give you provides a framework for doing this project. The vast majority of your work will be getting the SQL queries part correct. Very few changes will be required to the starter code.
This is an excellent template that you can take into the work place and use for future ETL jobs that you would do as a Data Engineer. It is well architected (e.g. staging tables for data independence from the logs and the final Sparkify DWH) AND bulk data loads into the Sparkify DWH for high compute performance via SQL from those staging tables.
